FIRST CLASS ASSIGNMENT
NAME: AGUDA TAIWO BLESSING

QUESTION 1: What are clients in the context of the internet, and can you provide 2 examples of client
devices?

ANSWER:
(a) Clients is a user program that connects to a server to access a service
(b) Laptops, Smartphones.

QUESTION 2: What is the role of servers in the context of the web and how do they interact with client
devices?

ANSWER:
(a) The role of web server is to primarily process and manage HTTP/HTTPS requests and
responses from the client system i.e. It store, process, and deliver requested information or
webpages to end users. It can also store and protect website data from unauthorized users.

(b) Web servers interact with client devices through a request-response cycle. Once an HTTP
server is set to listen to a specific port, the server waits for client requests coming to that
specific port, performs any actions stated by the request, and sends any requested data via
an HTTP response.

QUESTION 3: What is a DNS server and why is it important in accessing websites on the internet?

ANSWER:
(a) The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phonebook of the internet, and

(b) It is important in accessing websites as it’s responsible for finding the correct IP address for
those sites type into the web browsers by users.

QUESTION 4: What are the 3 basic level of DNS?

ANSWER:
(a) Root Name Server (RNS) which stores the IP addresses of the Top Level Domain (TLD) name
servers.

(b) TLD Name Server (TLDNS) which stores the IP addresses of authoritative name servers.

(c) Authoritative Name Server (ANS) which provides the actual answer to the domain name
server (DNS) query.

QUESTION 5: What is an IP address and explain its importance in the internet infrastructure?

ANSWER:
(a) An IP address is a unique address that identifies a device on the internet or a local network.
It is a numeric value assigned to a network device and it is used for the identification and
location of a network device.

(b) In internet infrastructure , The IP address allows two machines to identify each other and
talk to each other, exchanging data on the internet

QUESTION 6: What are small chunks of data transferred over the internet called?

ANSWER:
(a) It is called a Packet.

QUESTION 7: What is the role of the head, title and body tags in an html documents?

ANSWER:
(a) <head> tag: is a container for metadata (data about data) and is placed between the <html>
tad and the <body> tag.

(b) <title> tag: defines the title of the document and it must be text-only.

(c) <body> tag: defines the document’s body, it contains all the contents of an HTML
document, such as headings, paragraphs, images, hyperlinks, tables, lists, etc.

QUESTION 8: What is semantic html and why is it important?

ANSWER:
(a) Semantic HTML refers to the use of HTML tags to convey the meaning of the content
contained within them. Examples are <header>, <nav>, <aside>, <figure>, etc.

(b) It is important for
i. Accessibility
ii. Search Engine Optimization (SEO): Pages with correctly implemented semantic
HTML have an advantage in SEO over those that don’t.

QUESTION 9: Why is accessibility important?

ANSWER:
(a) Accessibility is important because
For sighted users (it will be easy to identify the various part of a web page) and for blind or
visually impaired users who rely on screen readers, the proper use of HTML semantic tags
will allow these readers to understand the content better because it will communicate the
content more accurately.